The  two  powers  strove  in  him.  For  a  moment,  perfectly 
balanced  between  their  piercing  points,  he  writhed,  tor¬ 
mented.  Suddenly  he  was  aware  of  himself  again,  Frodo, 
neither  the  Voice  nor  the  Eye:  free  to  choose,  and  with  one 
remaining  instant  in  which  to  do  so.  He  took  the  Ring  off  his 
finger.  He  was  kneeling  in  clear  sunlight  before  the  high  seat. 
A  black  shadow  seemed  to  pass  like  an  arm  above  him;  it 
missed  Amon  Hen  and  groped  out  west,  and  faded.  Then  all 
the  sky  was  clean  and  blue  and  birds  sang  in  every  tree. 

Frodo  rose  to  his  feet.  A  great  weariness  was  on  him,  but 
his  will  was  firm  and  his  heart  lighter.  He  spoke  aloud  to 


524  THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 

himself.  ‘I  will  do  now  what  I  must,’  he  said.  ‘This  at  least  is 
plain:  the  evil  of  the  Ring  is  already  at  work  even  in  the 
Company,  and  the  Ring  must  leave  them  before  it  does  more 
harm.  I  will  go  alone.  Some  I  cannot  trust,  and  those  I  can 
trust  are  too  dear  to  me:  poor  old  Sam,  and  Merry  and 
Pippin.  Strider,  too:  his  heart  yearns  for  Minas  Tirith,  and 
he  will  be  needed  there,  now  Boromir  has  fallen  into  evil.  I 
will  go  alone.  At  once.’ 

He  went  quickly  down  the  path  and  came  back  to  the  lawn 
where  Boromir  had  found  him.  Then  he  halted,  listening.  He 
thought  he  could  hear  cries  and  calls  from  the  woods  near 
the  shore  below. 

‘They’ll  be  hunting  for  me,’  he  said.  ‘I  wonder  how  long  I 
have  been  away.  Hours,  I  should  think.’  He  hesitated.  ‘What 
can  I  do?’  he  muttered.  ‘I  must  go  now  or  I  shall  never  go.  I 
shan’t  get  a  chance  again.  I  hate  leaving  them,  and  like  this 
without  any  explanation.  But  surely  they  will  understand. 
Sam  will.  And  what  else  can  I  do?’ 

Slowly  he  drew  out  the  Ring  and  put  it  on  once  more.  He 
vanished  and  passed  down  the  hill,  less  than  a  rustle  of  the 
wind. 

The  others  remained  long  by  the  river-side.  For  some  time 
they  had  been  silent,  moving  restlessly  about;  but  now  they 
were  sitting  in  a  circle,  and  they  were  talking.  Every  now  and 
again  they  made  efforts  to  speak  of  other  things,  of  their 
long  road  and  many  adventures;  they  questioned  Aragorn 
concerning  the  realm  of  Gondor  and  its  ancient  history,  and 
the  remnants  of  its  great  works  that  could  still  be  seen  in  this 
strange  border-land  of  the  Emyn  Muil:  the  stone  kings  and 
the  seats  of  Lhaw  and  Hen,  and  the  great  Stair  beside  the 
falls  of  Rauros.  But  always  their  thoughts  and  words  strayed 
back  to  Frodo  and  the  Ring.  What  would  Frodo  choose  to 
do?  Why  was  he  hesitating? 

‘He  is  debating  which  course  is  the  most  desperate,  I  think,’ 
said  Aragorn.  ‘And  well  he  may.  It  is  now  more  hopeless  than 
ever  for  the  Company  to  go  east,  since  we  have  been  tracked 


THE  BREAKING  OF  THE  FELLOWSHIP  525 

by  Gollum,  and  must  fear  that  the  secret  of  our  journey  is 
already  betrayed.  But  Minas  Tirith  is  no  nearer  to  the  Fire 
and  the  destruction  of  the  Burden. 

‘We  may  remain  there  for  a  while  and  make  a  brave  stand; 
but  the  Lord  Denethor  and  all  his  men  cannot  hope  to  do 
what  even  Elrond  said  was  beyond  his  power:  either  to  keep 
the  Burden  secret,  or  to  hold  off  the  full  might  of  the  Enemy 
when  he  comes  to  take  it.  Which  way  would  any  of  us  choose 
in  Frodo’s  place?  I  do  not  know.  Now  indeed  we  miss 
Gandalf  most.’ 

‘Grievous  is  our  loss,’  said  Legolas.  ‘Yet  we  must  needs 
make  up  our  minds  without  his  aid.  Why  cannot  we  decide, 
and  so  help  Frodo?  Let  us  call  him  back  and  then  vote!  I 
should  vote  for  Minas  Tirith.’ 

‘And  so  should  I,’  said  Gimli.  We,  of  course,  were  only 
sent  to  help  the  Bearer  along  the  road,  to  go  no  further  than 
we  wished;  and  none  of  us  is  under  any  oath  or  command  to 
seek  Mount  Doom.  Flard  was  my  parting  from  Lothlorien. 
Yet  I  have  come  so  far,  and  I  say  this:  now  we  have  reached 
the  last  choice,  it  is  clear  to  me  that  I  cannot  leave  Frodo.  I 
would  choose  Minas  Tirith,  but  if  he  does  not,  then  I  follow 
him.’ 

‘And  I  too  will  go  with  him,’  said  Legolas.  ‘It  would  be 
faithless  now  to  say  farewell.’ 

‘It  would  indeed  be  a  betrayal,  if  we  all  left  him,’  said 
Aragorn.  ‘But  if  he  goes  east,  then  all  need  not  go  with  him; 
nor  do  I  think  that  all  should.  That  venture  is  desperate:  as 
much  so  for  eight  as  for  three  or  two,  or  one  alone.  If  you 
would  let  me  choose,  then  I  should  appoint  three  com¬ 
panions:  Sam,  who  could  not  bear  it  otherwise;  and  Gimli; 
and  myself.  Boromir  will  return  to  his  own  city,  where  his 
father  and  his  people  need  him;  and  with  him  the  others 
should  go,  or  at  least  Meriadoc  and  Peregrin,  if  Legolas  is 
not  willing  to  leave  us.’ 

‘That  won’t  do  at  all!’  cried  Merry.  ‘We  can’t  leave  Frodo! 
Pippin  and  I  always  intended  to  go  wherever  he  went,  and 
we  still  do.  But  we  did  not  realize  what  that  would  mean.  It 


526 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


seemed  different  so  far  away,  in  the  Shire  or  in  Rivendell.  It 
would  be  mad  and  cruel  to  let  Frodo  go  to  Mordor.  Why 
can’t  we  stop  him?’ 

We  must  stop  him,’  said  Pippin.  ‘And  that  is  what  he  is 
worrying  about,  I  am  sure.  He  knows  we  shan’t  agree  to  his 
going  east.  And  he  doesn’t  like  to  ask  anyone  to  go  with  him, 
poor  old  fellow.  Imagine  it:  going  off  to  Mordor  alone!’ 
Pippin  shuddered.  ‘But  the  dear  silly  old  hobbit,  he  ought  to 
know  that  he  hasn’t  got  to  ask.  He  ought  to  know  that  if  we 
can’t  stop  him,  we  shan’t  leave  him.’ 

‘Begging  your  pardon,’  said  Sam.  ‘I  don’t  think  you  under¬ 
stand  my  master  at  all.  He  isn’t  hesitating  about  which  way 
to  go.  Of  course  not!  What’s  the  good  of  Minas  Tirith 
anyway?  To  him,  I  mean,  begging  your  pardon,  Master 
Boromir,’  he  added,  and  turned.  It  was  then  that  they  dis¬ 
covered  that  Boromir,  who  at  first  had  been  sitting  silent  on 
the  outside  of  the  circle,  was  no  longer  there. 

‘Now  where’s  he  got  to?’  cried  Sam,  looking  worried.  ‘He’s 
been  a  bit  queer  lately,  to  my  mind.  But  anyway  he’s  not  in 
this  business.  He’s  off  to  his  home,  as  he  always  said;  and  no 
blame  to  him.  But  Mr.  Frodo,  he  knows  he’s  got  to  find  the 
Cracks  of  Doom,  if  he  can.  But  he’s  afraid.  Now  it’s  come  to 
the  point,  he’s  just  plain  terrified.  That’s  what  his  trouble  is. 
Of  course  he’s  had  a  bit  of  schooling,  so  to  speak  -  we  all 
have  -  since  we  left  home,  or  he’d  be  so  terrified  he’d  just  fling 
the  Ring  in  the  River  and  bolt.  But  he’s  still  too  frightened  to 
start.  And  he  isn’t  worrying  about  us  either:  whether  we’ll  go 
along  with  him  or  no.  He  knows  we  mean  to.  That’s  another 
thing  that’s  bothering  him.  If  he  screws  himself  up  to  go,  he’ll 
want  to  go  alone.  Mark  my  words!  We’re  going  to  have 
trouble  when  he  comes  back.  For  he’ll  screw  himself  up  all 
right,  as  sure  as  his  name’s  Baggins.’ 

‘I  believe  you  speak  more  wisely  than  any  of  us,  Sam,’  said 
Aragorn.  ‘And  what  shall  we  do,  if  you  prove  right?’ 

‘Stop  him!  Don’t  let  him  go!’  cried  Pippin. 

‘I  wonder?’  said  Aragorn.  ‘He  is  the  Bearer,  and  the  fate 
of  the  Burden  is  on  him.  I  do  not  think  that  it  is  our  part  to 


THE  BREAKING  OF  THE  FELLOWSHIP  527 

drive  him  one  way  or  the  other.  Nor  do  I  think  that  we  should 
succeed,  if  we  tried.  There  are  other  powers  at  work  far 
stronger.’ 

‘Well,  I  wish  Frodo  would  “screw  himself  up”  and  come 
back,  and  let  us  get  it  over,’  said  Pippin.  ‘This  waiting  is 
horrible!  Surely  the  time  is  up?’ 

‘Yes,’  said  Aragorn.  ‘The  hour  is  long  passed.  The  morning 
is  wearing  away.  We  must  call  for  him.’ 

At  that  moment  Boromir  reappeared.  He  came  out  from 
the  trees  and  walked  towards  them  without  speaking.  His  face 
looked  grim  and  sad.  He  paused  as  if  counting  those  that 
were  present,  and  then  sat  down  aloof,  with  his  eyes  on  the 
ground. 

Where  have  you  been,  Boromir?’  asked  Aragorn.  ‘Have 
you  seen  Frodo?’ 

Boromir  hesitated  for  a  second.  ‘Yes,  and  no,’  he  answered 
slowly.  ‘Yes:  I  found  him  some  way  up  the  hill,  and  I  spoke 
to  him.  I  urged  him  to  come  to  Minas  Tirith  and  not  to  go 
east.  I  grew  angry  and  he  left  me.  He  vanished.  I  have  never 
seen  such  a  thing  happen  before,  though  I  have  heard  of  it 
in  tales.  He  must  have  put  the  Ring  on.  I  could  not  find  him 
again.  I  thought  he  would  return  to  you.’ 

‘Is  that  all  that  you  have  to  say?’  said  Aragorn,  looking  hard 
and  not  too  kindly  at  Boromir. 

‘Yes,’  he  answered.  ‘I  will  say  no  more  yet.’ 

‘This  is  bad!’  cried  Sam,  jumping  up.  ‘I  don’t  know  what 
this  Man  has  been  up  to.  Why  should  Mr.  Frodo  put  the 
thing  on?  He  didn’t  ought  to  have;  and  if  he  has,  goodness 
knows  what  may  have  happened!’ 

‘But  he  wouldn’t  keep  it  on,’  said  Merry.  ‘Not  when  he 
had  escaped  the  unwelcome  visitor,  like  Bilbo  used  to.’ 

‘But  where  did  he  go?  Where  is  he?’  cried  Pippin.  ‘He’s 
been  away  ages  now.’ 

‘How  long  is  it  since  you  saw  Frodo  last,  Boromir?’  asked 
Aragorn. 

‘Half  an  hour,  maybe,’  he  answered.  ‘Or  it  might  be  an 


528 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


hour.  I  have  wandered  for  some  time  since.  I  do  not  know!  I 
do  not  know!’  He  put  his  head  in  his  hands,  and  sat  as  if 
bowed  with  grief. 

‘An  hour  since  he  vanished!’  shouted  Sam.  ‘We  must  try 
and  find  him  at  once.  Come  on!’ 

‘Wait  a  moment!’  cried  Aragorn.  ‘We  must  divide  up  into 
pairs,  and  arrange  -  here,  hold  on!  Wait!’ 

It  was  no  good.  They  took  no  notice  of  him.  Sam  had 
dashed  off  first.  Merry  and  Pippin  had  followed,  and  were 
already  disappearing  westward  into  the  trees  by  the  shore, 
shouting:  Frodo!  Frodo!  in  their  clear,  high,  hobbit-voices. 
Legolas  and  Gimli  were  running.  A  sudden  panic  or  madness 
seemed  to  have  fallen  on  the  Company. 

‘We  shall  all  be  scattered  and  lost,’  groaned  Aragorn.  ‘Boro- 
mir!  I  do  not  know  what  part  you  have  played  in  this  mischief, 
but  help  now!  Go  after  those  two  young  hobbits,  and  guard 
them  at  the  least,  even  if  you  cannot  find  Frodo.  Come  back 
to  this  spot,  if  you  find  him,  or  any  traces  of  him.  I  shall 
return  soon.’ 

Aragorn  sprang  swiftly  away  and  went  in  pursuit  of  Sam. 
Just  as  he  reached  the  little  lawn  among  the  rowans  he  over¬ 
took  him,  toiling  uphill,  panting  and  calling,  Frodo! 

‘Come  with  me,  Sam!’  he  said.  ‘None  of  us  should  be 
alone.  There  is  mischief  about.  I  feel  it.  I  am  going  to  the 
top,  to  the  Seat  of  Amon  Hen,  to  see  what  may  be  seen.  And 
look!  It  is  as  my  heart  guessed,  Frodo  went  this  way.  Follow 
me,  and  keep  your  eyes  open!’  He  sped  up  the  path. 

Sam  did  his  best,  but  he  could  not  keep  up  with  Strider 
the  Ranger,  and  soon  fell  behind.  He  had  not  gone  far  before 
Aragorn  was  out  of  sight  ahead.  Sam  stopped  and  puffed. 
Suddenly  he  clapped  his  hand  to  his  head. 

‘Whoa,  Sam  Gamgee!’  he  said  aloud.  ‘Your  legs  are  too 
short,  so  use  your  head!  Let  me  see  now!  Boromir  isn’t  lying, 
that’s  not  his  way;  but  he  hasn’t  told  us  everything.  Some¬ 
thing  scared  Mr.  Frodo  badly.  He  screwed  himself  up  to  the 
point,  sudden.  He  made  up  his  mind  at  last  -  to  go.  Where 


THE  BREAKING  OF  THE  FELLOWSHIP  529 

to?  Off  East.  Not  without  Sam?  Yes,  without  even  his  Sam. 
That’s  hard,  cruel  hard.’ 

Sam  passed  his  hand  over  his  eyes,  brushing  away  the 
tears.  ‘Steady,  Gamgee!’  he  said.  ‘Think,  if  you  can!  He  can’t 
fly  across  rivers,  and  he  can’t  jump  waterfalls.  He’s  got  no 
gear.  So  he’s  got  to  get  back  to  the  boats.  Back  to  the  boats! 
Back  to  the  boats,  Sam,  like  lightning!’ 

Sam  turned  and  bolted  back  down  the  path.  He  fell  and 
cut  his  knees.  Up  he  got  and  ran  on.  He  came  to  the  edge  of 
the  lawn  of  Parth  Galen  by  the  shore,  where  the  boats  were 
drawn  up  out  of  the  water.  No  one  was  there.  There  seemed 
to  be  cries  in  the  woods  behind,  but  he  did  not  heed  them. 
He  stood  gazing  for  a  moment,  stock-still,  gaping.  A  boat 
was  sliding  down  the  bank  all  by  itself.  With  a  shout  Sam 
raced  across  the  grass.  The  boat  slipped  into  the  water. 

‘Coming,  Mr.  Frodo!  Coming!’  called  Sam,  and  flung  him¬ 
self  from  the  bank,  clutching  at  the  departing  boat.  He  missed 
it  by  a  yard.  With  a  cry  and  a  splash  he  fell  face  downward 
into  deep  swift  water.  Gurgling  he  went  under,  and  the  River 
closed  over  his  curly  head. 

An  exclamation  of  dismay  came  from  the  empty  boat.  A 
paddle  swirled  and  the  boat  put  about.  Frodo  was  just  in 
time  to  grasp  Sam  by  the  hair  as  he  came  up,  bubbling  and 
struggling.  Fear  was  staring  in  his  round  brown  eyes. 

‘Up  you  come,  Sam  my  lad!’  said  Frodo.  ‘Now  take  my 
hand!’ 

‘Save  me,  Mr.  Frodo!’  gasped  Sam.  ‘I’m  drownded.  I  can’t 
see  your  hand.’ 

‘Here  it  is.  Don’t  pinch,  lad!  I  won’t  let  you  go.  Tread 
water  and  don’t  flounder,  or  you’ll  upset  the  boat.  There 
now,  get  hold  of  the  side,  and  let  me  use  the  paddle!’ 

With  a  few  strokes  Frodo  brought  the  boat  back  to  the 
bank,  and  Sam  was  able  to  scramble  out,  wet  as  a  water-rat. 
Frodo  took  off  the  Ring  and  stepped  ashore  again. 

‘Of  all  the  confounded  nuisances  you  are  the  worst,  Sam!’ 
he  said. 

‘Oh,  Mr.  Frodo,  that’s  hard!’  said  Sam  shivering.  ‘That’s 


530 


THE  FELLOWSHIP  OF  THE  RING 


hard,  trying  to  go  without  me  and  all.  If  I  hadn’t  a  guessed 
right,  where  would  you  be  now?’ 

‘Safely  on  my  way.’ 

‘Safely!’  said  Sam.  ‘All  alone  and  without  me  to  help  you? 
I  couldn’t  have  a  borne  it,  it’d  have  been  the  death  of  me.’ 

‘It  would  be  the  death  of  you  to  come  with  me,  Sam,’  said 
Frodo,  ‘and  I  could  not  have  borne  that.’ 

‘Not  as  certain  as  being  left  behind,’  said  Sam. 

‘But  I  am  going  to  Mordor.’ 

‘I  know  that  well  enough,  Mr.  Frodo.  Of  course  you  are. 
And  I’m  coming  with  you.’ 

‘Now,  Sam,’  said  Frodo,  ‘don’t  hinder  me!  The  others  will 
be  coming  back  at  any  minute.  If  they  catch  me  here,  I  shall 
have  to  argue  and  explain,  and  I  shall  never  have  the  heart 
or  the  chance  to  get  off.  But  I  must  go  at  once.  It’s  the  only 
way.’ 

‘Of  course  it  is,’  answered  Sam.  ‘But  not  alone.  I’m  coming 
too,  or  neither  of  us  isn’t  going.  I’ll  knock  holes  in  all  the 
boats  first.’ 

Frodo  actually  laughed.  A  sudden  warmth  and  gladness 
touched  his  heart.  ‘Leave  one!’  he  said.  ‘We’ll  need  it.  But  you 
can’t  come  like  this  without  your  gear  or  food  or  anything.’ 

‘Just  hold  on  a  moment,  and  I’ll  get  my  stuff!’  cried  Sam 
eagerly.  ‘It’s  all  ready.  I  thought  we  should  be  off  today.’  He 
rushed  to  the  camping  place,  fished  out  his  pack  from  the 
pile  where  Frodo  had  laid  it  when  he  emptied  the  boat  of  his 
companions’  goods,  grabbed  a  spare  blanket,  and  some  extra 
packages  of  food,  and  ran  back. 

‘So  all  my  plan  is  spoilt!’  said  Frodo.  ‘It  is  no  good  trying 
to  escape  you.  But  I’m  glad,  Sam.  I  cannot  tell  you  how  glad. 
Come  along!  It  is  plain  that  we  were  meant  to  go  together. 
We  will  go,  and  may  the  others  find  a  safe  road!  Strider  will 
look  after  them.  I  don’t  suppose  we  shall  see  them  again.’ 

‘Yet  we  may,  Mr.  Frodo.  We  may,’  said  Sam. 

So  Frodo  and  Sam  set  off  on  the  last  stage  of  the  Quest 
together.  Frodo  paddled  away  from  the  shore,  and  the  River 


THE  BREAKING  OF  THE  FELLOWSHIP  531 

bore  them  swiftly  away,  down  the  western  arm,  and  past  the 
frowning  cliffs  of  Tol  Brandir.  The  roar  of  the  great  falls 
drew  nearer.  Even  with  such  help  as  Sam  could  give,  it  was 
hard  work  to  pass  across  the  current  at  the  southward  end  of 
the  island  and  drive  the  boat  eastward  towards  the  far  shore. 

At  length  they  came  to  land  again  upon  the  southern  slopes 
of  Amon  Lhaw.  There  they  found  a  shelving  shore,  and  they 
drew  the  boat  out,  high  above  the  water,  and  hid  it  as  well  as 
they  could  behind  a  great  boulder.  Then  shouldering  their 
burdens,  they  set  off,  seeking  a  path  that  would  bring  them 
over  the  grey  hills  of  the  Emyn  Muil,  and  down  into  the  Land 
of  Shadow. 


MAPS 


WORKS  BY  J.R.R.  TOLKIEN 
The  Hobbit 
Leaf  by  Niggle 
On  Fairy-Stories 
Farmer  Giles  of  Ham 
The  Homecoming  of  Beorhtnoth 
The  Lord  of  the  Rings 
The  Adventures  of  Tom  Bombadil 
The  Road  Goes  Ever  On  (with  Donald  Swann) 

Smith  of  Wootton  Major 

WORKS  PUBLISHED  POSTHUMOUSLY 

Sir  Gawain  and  the  Green  Knight,  Pearl  and  Sir  Orfeo 
The  Father  Christmas  Letters 
The  Silmarillion 
Pictures  by  J.R.R.  Tolkien 
Unfinished  Tales 
The  Letters  of  J.R.R.  Tolkien 
Finn  and  Hengest 
Mr  Bliss 

The  Monsters  and  the  Critics  &  Other  Essays 
Roverandom 
The  Children  of  Hurin 
The  Legend  of  Sigurd  and  Gudrun 

THE  HISTORY  OF  MIDDLE-EARTH  -  BY  CHRISTOPHER  TOLKIEN 

I  The  Book  of  Lost  Tales,  Part  One 

II  The  Book  of  Lost  Tales,  Part  Two 

III  The  Lays  of  Beleriand 
IV  The  Shaping  of  Middle-earth 
V  The  Lost  Road  and  Other  Writings 

VI  The  Return  of  the  Shadow 

VII  The  Treason  of  Isengard 
VIII  The  War  of  the  Ring 

IX  Sauron  Defeated 
X  Morgoth’s  Ring 
XI  The  War  of  the  Jewels 
XII  The  Peoples  of  Middle-earth 


Copyright 


HarperCollins  Publishers 

77-85  Fulham  Palace  Road, 

Hammersmith,  London  W6  8JB 

www.tolkien.co.uk 

www.tolkienestate.com 

Published  by  HarperCollins  Publishers  2008 
1 

This  edition  is  based  on  the  reset  edition  first  published  2004 

First  published  in  Great  Britain  by  George  Allen  &  Unwin  1954 
Second  Edition  1966 


Copyright  ©  The  Trustees  of  the  J.R.R.Tolkien  1967  Settlement  1954, 1966 

/V-.® 

/T-v  and  ‘Tolkien’®  are  registered  trademarks  of 
J/1V  The  J.R.R.  Tolkien  Estate  Limited 

AER  Edition  ©  March  2009  ISBN:  978-0-061-91767-7 

All  rights  reserved  under  International  and  Pan-American  Copyright 
Conventions.  By  payment  of  the  required  fees,  you  have  been  granted  the  non¬ 
exclusive,  non-transferable  right  to  access  and  read  the  text  of  this  e-book  on¬ 
screen.  No  part  of  this  text  may  be  reproduced,  transmitted,  down-loaded, 
decompiled,  reverse  engineered,  or  stored  in  or  introduced  into  any  information 
storage  and  retrieval  system,  in  any  form  or  by  any  means,  whether  electronic  or 
mechanical,  now  known  or  hereinafter  invented,  without  the  express  written 
permission  of  HarperCollins  e-books. 


HarperCollins  e-books 


ABOUT  THE  PUBLISHER 

Australia 

HarperCollins  Publishers  (Australia)  Pty.  Ltd. 

25  Ryde  Road  (PO  Box  321) 

Pymble,  NSW  2073,  Australia 
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.com.au 

Canada 

HarperCollins  Canada 
2  Bloor  Street  East  -  20th  Floor 
Toronto,  ON,  M4W  1A8,  Canada 
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.ca 

New  Zealand 

HarperCollinsPublishers  (New  Zealand)  Limited 
P.O.  Box  1 

Auckland,  New  Zealand 
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.co.nz 

United  Kingdom 

HarperCollins  Publishers  Ltd. 

77-85  Fulham  Palace  Road 
London,  W6  8JB,  UK 
http://www.harpercollinsebooks.co.uk 

United  States 

HarperCollins  Publishers  Inc. 

10  East  53rd  Street 

New  York,  NY  10022 

http://www.harpercollinsebooks.com 



